We can stigmatize or have stereotypes of other people when we don't
recognize some of what they've been through and how they need a little
bit of a break and they need an open mind.
We are a team of nurse practitioners, family physicians,
RNs, social workers, social service liaison, and very importantly
front desk administrative staff who are really our glue. A big piece of
the mission at our clinic is tied to Vancouver Coastal Health's values,
which are we care for everyone, we're always learning, and we strive for
better results. And we, I really think we live those values at this
clinic. We're always trying to provide good care for patients. We're patient
centered. We're low barrier. We understand that this is
a population who struggle with equities and we try and narrow that gap.
I think what makes us unique on the North Shore is we don't
have all of the resources that Vancouver has.
And I worked in Vancouver community for a long time and
still have a lot of connections there and see what the care is
like there and it's phenomenal. Just really wrap around support, lots of
resources. We don't have all of that on the North Shore.
So I think what makes us unique is that we're nimble
and we are innovative. We have a mandate to see people who are
more vulnerable. They might have social complexities, homelessness,
poverty, struggles with their social determinants of health.
And sometimes we need to augment services for people. And really checking
bias, I guess, is maybe what I'm trying to say is a big
part of what you need to work at a place like this and
what we really try and instill in people
when we orient them and bring them on. I mean, we naturally attract
people who also have that perspective, but I think we cultivate that work
as well. I saw somebody yesterday who is a new patient at our clinic
and she was here for specifically opioid agonist therapy or
treatment for her addiction, which is what we do a lot of here.
I met with her and, I mean, obviously the focus of the care
was on her, her sort of therapeutics around her addiction. But of course
we got into primary care and her social situation
and we gave her some hot soup and some granola bars she hadn't
eaten. She had been homeless last week. And
this is common. We see most of our patients
have stories like this. And being new to the Lower Mainland,
she said that she hadn't experienced anything like that before and
was feeling really safe and really thankful and expressing gratitude at
having that. And I thought, oh, this is just what we do here.
I have a bunch of people on my panel who I'm MRP for,
who I've known for years. I've been here for just about five years
and I've seen them go through lots of their ups and downs,
but really seeing people stabilized once they're connected to the clinic.
People who use substances and are vulnerable, they intersect in all areas
of healthcare. And so whether you're working in acute services, hospital
based services, in the community, in public health, in primary care,
in mental health and substance use, we have such a privilege
to be working here and doing this work that we do.
And with that privilege comes responsibility to take care of people and
be mindful and to challenge our beliefs and
strive for being a learner and for having an open mind
and knowing that we're in a really large, complex healthcare system,
but that the work we do is so important
and it impacts people's lives so much every time they have
connection with the healthcare system. We really do have a flattened hierarchy.
So everybody at the clinic, whether you are
a medical provider, you're working at the front desk in your administration,
you're a peer support worker, we all work together for our patients and
we put our patients at the center and I really think
we do a good job of that.